 1) Association Discovery with apriori-algorithm : what means "association"? The minimum thresholds; the support, confidence values; the apriori-algorithm (with a given order, we join and prune; we generate the rules).

Support is an indication of how frequently the itemset appears in the dataset.
support - number of occurences OR number of occurences / number of observations.

Any subset of a frequent itemset must be frequent. If {beer, diaper, nuts} is frequent, so is {beer, diaper}.

apriori pruning priciple - don't consider supersets of infrequent sets

apriori algorithm:
1. generate single element sets of values in the database; prune infrequent ones
2. generate two element combinations of all non-pruned values, prune infrequent combinations
3. generate three element combinations, ALL subsets of a candidate combination must be in (2.)
n. Terminate when no frequent or candidate set can be generated

association - a rule, learned from a database; it shows relationship between variables

Confidence is an indication of how often the rule has been found to be true.
confidence is conditional probability that a transaction having X also contains Y
conf(X=>Y) = supp(X and Y) / supp(X)

2) GSP-algorithm: see apriori; different timepoints and concomitance, join.
GSP (Generalized Sequential Pattern) mining algorithm.
just as apriori?



3) Similarity and distance functions: Hamming distance, Manhattan distance, Euclidean Distance (the terms "Edit Distance" and "Earth-Mover distance" should be heard).
Hamming distance - N1
Manhattan distance - taxicab distance - sum(diff along every axis)
Euclidian distance - N2
edit distance - how many operations are needed to transform n1 into n2


4) Unsupervised Learning; Clustering with k-means and Demographic clustering (particularly: creation of the distance matrix)


5) Supervised Learning: Classification and Decision Tree-technique (particularly: how is a split made? what is an Error matrix, what means accuracy of a classification? What is the purity of a node/leaf? Can a decision tree have more than 2 splits per node, et cetera).





There will be no questions about topic detection, sentiment analysis.
